## Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)

SORRY I MESSED UP.

DNA is a molecule
composed of two chains (made of nucleotides) that coil around each other to form a double helix carrying
the genetic instructions used in the growth, development, functioning and reproduction of all known living
organisms and many viruses. DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are nucleic acids; alongside proteins, lipids
and complex carbohydrates (polysaccharides), nucleic acids are one of the four major types of
macromolecules that are essential for all known forms of life.

The two DNA strands are also known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler monomeric units
called nucleotides.[2][3] Each nucleotide is composed of one of four nitrogen-containing nucleobases
(cytosine [C], guanine [G], adenine [A] or thymine [T]), a sugar called deoxyribose, and a phosphate group.
The nucleotides are joined to one another in a chain by covalent bonds between the sugar of one nucleotide 
and the phosphate of the next, resulting in an alternating sugar-phosphate backbone. The nitrogenous bases
of the two separate polynucleotide strands are bound together, according to base pairing rules
(A with T and C with G), with hydrogen bonds to make double-stranded DNA.

The complementary nitrogenous bases are divided into two groups, pyrimidines and purines. In DNA, the 
pyrimidines are thymine and cytosine; the purines are adenine and guanine.

DNA stores biological information. The DNA backbone is resistant to cleavage, and both strands of the 
double-stranded structure store the same biological information. This information is replicated as and 
when the two strands separate. A large part of DNA (more than 98% for humans) is non-coding, meaning that 
these sections do not serve as patterns for protein sequences.

The two strands of DNA run in opposite directions to each other and are thus antiparallel. Attached to 
each sugar is one of four types of nucleobases (informally, bases). It is the sequence of these four 
nucleobases along the backbone that encodes genetic information. RNA strands are created using DNA strands
as a template in a process called transcription. Under the genetic code, these RNA strands are translated
to specify the sequence of amino acids within proteins in a process called translation.

Within eukaryotic cells, DNA is organized into long structures called chromosomes. Before typical cell
division, these chromosomes are duplicated in the process of DNA replication, providing a complete set of
chromosomes for each daughter cell. Eukaryotic organisms (animals, plants, fungi and protists) store most
of their DNA inside the cell nucleus and some of their DNA in organelles, such as mitochondria or
chloroplasts. In contrast, prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea) store their DNA only in the cytoplasm.
Within eukaryotic chromosomes, chromatin proteins, such as histones, compact and organize DNA. These
compact structures guide the interactions between DNA and other proteins, helping control which parts of
the DNA are transcribed.

DNA was first isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869. Its molecular structure was first identified by
James Watson and Francis Crick at the Cavendish Laboratory within the University of Cambridge in 1953,
whose model-building efforts were guided by X-ray diffraction data acquired by Raymond Gosling, who was
a post-graduate student of Rosalind Franklin. DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore
physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. The unique material
properties of DNA have made it an attractive molecule for material scientists and engineers interested
in micro- and nano-fabrication. Among notable advances in this field are DNA origami and DNA-based hybrid
materials.
